docs/internationalization.md, before:

# Internationalization

## Routing

See [routing locales](routing.md#locale).

## Messages

The application uses [Symfony Translation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/translation.html) to manage translated messages 
on the page (e.g. microcopy such as 'Displaying 100 results').

Translations are stored in `translations/` and use the [ICU message format](https://symfony.com/doc/current/translation/message_format.html).

It's important for messages to have

### Outputting messages in Twig

Output message via the [trans](https://symfony.com/doc/current/reference/twig_reference.html#trans) filter:

```html
{ 'title'|trans }}
```

You can pass arguments to the translation via:

```html
<p>{{ 'api_available.w3c'|trans({'available': w3c_available}) }}</p>
```

Read more on [selecting different messages based on a condition](https://symfony.com/doc/current/translation/message_format.html#selecting-different-messages-based-on-a-condition). 

### Outputting messages in JavaScript

There is a need to display localized messages on the front-end via JavaScript. We use JSON messages file to help 
manage this which is generated by Symfony. 

TODO

## Content

TODO

Commit message:

document translations from templates bundle

docs/internationalization.md, after:

# Internationalization

## Routing

See [routing locales](routing.md#locale).

## Messages

The application uses [Symfony Translation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/translation.html) to manage translated messages 
on the page (e.g. microcopy such as 'Displaying 100 results').

Translations are stored in `translations/` and use the [ICU message format](https://symfony.com/doc/current/translation/message_format.html).

It's important for messages to have

### Outputting messages in Twig

Output message via the [trans](https://symfony.com/doc/current/reference/twig_reference.html#trans) filter:

```html
{ 'title'|trans }}
```

You can pass arguments to the translation via:

```html
<p>{{ 'api_available.w3c'|trans({'available': w3c_available}) }}</p>
```

Read more on [selecting different messages based on a condition](https://symfony.com/doc/current/translation/message_format.html#selecting-different-messages-based-on-a-condition). 

## Messages from w3c/website-templates-bundle

[w3c/website-templates-bundle](https://github.com/w3c/website-templates-bundle) also defines and uses some translatable
strings for messages that are common to all templates. They are defined in a different translation domain named
`w3c_website_templates_bundle` as recommended
in [Symfony best practices](https://symfony.com/doc/current/bundles/best_practices.html#translation-files).
Those strings are defined in the [bundle's translations directory](https://github.com/w3c/w3c-website-templates-bundle/tree/main/translations).

To use those strings you need to pass the domain as a parameter of the trans filter or tag:
```html
{{ 'w3c.description'|trans([], 'w3c_website_templates_bundle') }}
```

### Outputting messages in JavaScript

There is a need to display localized messages on the front-end via JavaScript. We use JSON messages file to help 
manage this which is generated by Symfony. 

TODO

## Content

TODO
